docs/source/querying_data/hybrid_search.md, before:

# Hybrid Search

You can use an OpenSearch client version 2.10+ to query your Sycamore stack, and you can run direct hybrid searches (vector + keyword) on your data.

Hybrid search is implemented an [OpenSearch search processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) that enables relevancy score normalization and combination of search results from both semantic and keyword search approaches. This allows you to make the best of both keyword and semantic (neural) search, giving higher-quality results. You can use Sycamore's default hybrid search configuration, or you can customize the way your search relevancy is calculated.

## Default pipeline

By default, Sycamore includes a hybrid search pipeline named 'hybrid_pipeline' with default settings for weighting across vector and keyword retreival and other parameters. When using hybrid search, you must also create vector embeddings for your question using the same AI model that you used when indexing your data. For more information, visit the [OpenSearch Neural Query documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/specialized/neural/) and the [OpenSearch Hybrid Search documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/).


Example hybrid search query:

```javascript
GET <index-name>/_search?search_pipeline=hybrid_pipeline
{
  "query": {
    "hybrid": {
      "queries": [
        {
          "match": {
            "text_representation": "Who wrote the book of love?"
          }
        },
        {
          "neural": {
            "embedding": {
              "query_text": "Who wrote the book of love",
              "model_id": "<embedding model id>",
              "k": 100
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Customize your hybrid search

You can also customize your hybrid search settings by creating your own hybrid search procesor. For instance, Sycamore's default settings use a `min_max` normalization with an `arithmetic_mean` (weighted `[0.111,0.889]` towards the neural vs. keyword score), but you may find that your use case works better with diffrent wieghting. More information about weighting can be found in the [OpenSearch documentation](https://opensearch.org/blog/semantic-science-benchmarks/).

For an example to create a new hybrid search pipeline with different configuration (weighted 0.2 for keyword, 0.8 for nerual):

```javascript
PUT /_search/pipeline/my_hybrid_search_pipeline
{
  "description": "My Hybrid Search Pipeline",
  "phase_results_processors": [
    {
      "normalization-processor": {
        "normalization": {
          "technique": "min_max"
        },
        "combination": {
          "technique": "arithmetic_mean",
          "parameters": {
            "weights": [0.2, 0.8]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

To use this hybrid processor, specify it in your hybrid query request:

```javascript
GET <index-name>/_search?search_pipeline=my_hybrid_search_pipeline
{
  "query": {
    "hybrid": {
      "queries": [
        {
          "match": {
            "text_representation": "Who wrote the book of love?"
          }
        },
        {
          "neural": {
            "embedding": {
              "query_text": "Who wrote the book of love",
              "model_id": "<embedding model id>",
              "k": 100
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Jonfritz patch 2 (#235)
* Update demo_query_ui.md

Update lanugage

* Update using_rag_pipelines.md

Updated language

* Update hybrid_search.md

Updated language

* Update integrate_your_application.md

Small updates

* Update generative_ai_configurations.md

Updated language

* Update overview.md

Update language

* Update storage_for_genai_agents.md

Updated link

* Update using_with_conversational_search.md

Removed quotes

* Rename sycamore_local_dev_example.ipynb to sycamore_dev_example.ipynb

Change name of file

* Rename sycamore_dev_example.ipynb to jupyter_dev_example.ipynb

Change name

* Update sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md

Updated guide to reflect new Sycamore consolidation.

* Update sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md

Fix typo

* Update sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md

Fix typo

* Update sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md

Fix links

* Update sycamore_data_prep_local.md

Updated language

* Update conversational_memory_with_langchain.md

Updated language

* Update overview.md

Fixed spelling mistakes

* Update using_with_conversational_search.md

Fixed spelling mistakes

* Update demo_query_ui.md

Fix spelling mistake

* Update demo_query_ui.md

* Update demo_query_ui.md

Added info on the financial document

* Update generative_ai_configurations.md

Change order of the configuration steps

* Update integrate_your_application.md

Change note to indent from italics

* Update using_rag_pipelines.md

Updated language

* Update conversational_memory_with_langchain.md

Add "in Python"

* Update sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md

Changed step reference

* Update sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md

Spelling fix

docs/source/querying_data/hybrid_search.md, after:

# Hybrid Search

Sycamore is compatible with the OpenSearch query API. You can use an OpenSearch client version 2.10+ to query your Sycamore stack to run direct hybrid search queries (vector + keyword) on your data.

Hybrid search is implemented an [OpenSearch search processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/) that enables relevancy score normalization and combination of search results from both semantic and keyword search approaches. This allows you to make the best of both keyword and semantic (neural) search, giving higher-quality results. You can use Sycamore's default hybrid search configuration, or you can customize the way your search relevancy is calculated.

## Default pipeline

By default, Sycamore includes a hybrid search pipeline named 'hybrid_pipeline' with default settings for weighting across vector and keyword retreival and other parameters. When using hybrid search, you must also create vector embeddings for your question using the same AI model that you used when indexing your data. For more information, visit the [OpenSearch Neural Query documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/query-dsl/specialized/neural/) and the [OpenSearch Hybrid Search documentation](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/hybrid-search/).


Example hybrid search query:

```javascript
GET <index-name>/_search?search_pipeline=hybrid_pipeline
{
  "query": {
    "hybrid": {
      "queries": [
        {
          "match": {
            "text_representation": "Who wrote the book of love?"
          }
        },
        {
          "neural": {
            "embedding": {
              "query_text": "Who wrote the book of love",
              "model_id": "<embedding model id>",
              "k": 100
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Customize your hybrid search

You can also customize your hybrid search settings by creating your own hybrid search procesor. For instance, Sycamore's default settings use a `min_max` normalization with an `arithmetic_mean` (weighted `[0.111,0.889]` towards the neural vs. keyword score), but you may find that your use case works better with diffrent wieghting. More information about weighting can be found in the [OpenSearch documentation](https://opensearch.org/blog/semantic-science-benchmarks/).

For an example to create a new hybrid search pipeline with different configuration (weighted 0.2 for keyword, 0.8 for nerual):

```javascript
PUT /_search/pipeline/my_hybrid_search_pipeline
{
  "description": "My Hybrid Search Pipeline",
  "phase_results_processors": [
    {
      "normalization-processor": {
        "normalization": {
          "technique": "min_max"
        },
        "combination": {
          "technique": "arithmetic_mean",
          "parameters": {
            "weights": [0.2, 0.8]
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

To use this hybrid processor, specify it in your hybrid query request:

```javascript
GET <index-name>/_search?search_pipeline=my_hybrid_search_pipeline
{
  "query": {
    "hybrid": {
      "queries": [
        {
          "match": {
            "text_representation": "Who wrote the book of love?"
          }
        },
        {
          "neural": {
            "embedding": {
              "query_text": "Who wrote the book of love",
              "model_id": "<embedding model id>",
              "k": 100
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
