docs/source/tutorials/sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md, before:

# Use Jupyter to write and iterate on Sycamore jobs

Jupyter notebooks provide an easy way to create, iterate on, and run Sycamore data preparation scripts. Sycamore includes a containerized Jupyter notebook, or you can install and run Jupyter locally.

In this example, we will:

- [Install and run components](#Access-your-Jupyter-notebook)
- [Write a data preparation job](#Write-an-data-preparation-job)
- [Add metadata extraction to the job using a GenAI transform](#Add-metadata-extraction-using-GenAI)

The full notebook that includes the final code of the job is [here](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore/blob/main/notebooks/jupyter_dev_example.ipynb).

## Access your Jupyter notebook

### Using the Jupyter container

1. Launch Sycamore using the [get started instructions](../welcome_to_sycamore/get_started.md#launch-sycamore).

2. Access Jupyter using the URL specified in the logs. The token is stable
over restarts of the container. If you cannot find the URL, follow [these instructions](../data_ingestion_and_preparation/using_jupyter.md#jupyter-notebook).

The script you will develop is also present as a notebook file in the `examples` directory for convenience. We recommend that you write your script in either the docker_volume or bind_dir directory so that your script persists over container restarts.

### Install Jupyter locally

The instructions for installing Jupyter locally have been tested on MacOS 14.0, MacOS 13.4.1, and Ubuntu 23.10; they may have to be tweaked for other environments

1. Launch Sycamore using the [get started instructions](../welcome_to_sycamore/get_started.md#launch-sycamore).

2. Install the Sycamore data preparation libraries locally [using these instructions](../data_ingestion_and_preparation/installing_sycamore_libraries_locally.md).

3. Install [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/). If you already have a Python notebook environment, you can choose to use that instead.

```
pip install notebook
```

*Note: If you are installing on linux you will also need `pip install async_timeout` to complete
these instructions.*

4. Launch Jupyter Notebook

If you haven't set your OpenAI Key, do so before starting your notebook:
```
export OPENAI_API_KEY=YOUR-KEY
```

In the browser window that appears, navigate to File -> New -> Notebook; and then choose the
preferred kernel.


## Write a data preparation job

1. First, we will write an initial data preparation job in a new notebook file. We'll then iterate on the job later in this tutorial.

1a. First, we will import our dependencies from IPython, JSON, Pillow, and Sycamore:

```python
import json
import os
import subprocess
import sys

from pathlib import Path
from IPython.display import display, Image
from IPython.display import IFrame
from PIL import Image as PImage

import sycamore
from sycamore.data import Document
from sycamore.transforms.embed import SentenceTransformerEmbedder
from sycamore.transforms.extract_entity import OpenAIEntityExtractor
from sycamore.llms import OpenAIModels, OpenAI, LLM
from sycamore.transforms.partition import UnstructuredPdfPartitioner, HtmlPartitioner
from sycamore.llms.prompts.default_prompts import TEXT_SUMMARIZER_GUIDANCE_PROMPT_CHAT
from sycamore.transforms.summarize import Summarizer
from sycamore.transforms.extract_table import TextractTableExtractor
from sycamore.functions.document import split_and_convert_to_image, DrawBoxes
from sycamore.tests.config import TEST_DIR
from sycamore.transforms.merge_elements import GreedyTextElementMerger
from sycamore.functions.tokenizer import HuggingFaceTokenizer
from sycamore.scans.file_scan import JsonManifestMetadataProvider
```

1b. Next, we will define a working directory for the pdfs we will process and the metadata.
You can make additional cells with the rectangle over a + button on the right side of each cell.

```python
work_dir = "tmp/sycamore/data"
```

NOTE: If you are running in the container, we recommend instead `work_dir = "/app/work/docker_volume"` since that location is persistent over container restarts.


1c. Now we download the pdf files we're going to process and create metadata for them. We will use
two journal articles, "Attention Is All You Need" and "A Comprehensive Survey On Applications Of
Transformers For Deep Learning Tasks." The metadata file enables our demo query UI to show and highlight
the source documents when clicking on a search result. In this example, the demo query UI will pull the
document from a publicly accessible URL. However, you could choose to host the documents in Amazon
S3 (common for enterprise data) or other locations accessible by the demo query UI container.

```python
os.makedirs(work_dir, exist_ok = True)
metadata = {}
for f in ["1706.03762.pdf", "2306.07303.pdf"]:
    path = os.path.join(work_dir, f)
    url = os.path.join("https://arxiv.org/pdf", f)
    if not Path(path).is_file():
        print("Downloading {} to {}".format(url, path))
        subprocess.run(["curl", "-o", path, url])
    metadata[path] = { "_location": url }

manifest_path = os.path.join(work_dir, "manifest.json")
with open(manifest_path, "w") as f:
    json.dump(metadata, f)
```

1d. The next two cells will show a quick view of the PDF documents we will ingest, if we want to inspect them or take a closer look. Note we are pulling the data from the location of the files so that this example works both within and outside of a container.

```
IFrame(str(metadata[os.path.join(work_dir, "1706.03762.pdf")]["_location"]), width=700, height=600)
```

```
IFrame(str(metadata[os.path.join(work_dir, "2306.07303.pdf")]["_location"]), width=700, height=600)
```

1e. Now, we initialize a Sycamore context, and create a [DocSet](../data_ingestion_and_preparation/data_preparation_concepts.md#docset):

```python
openai_llm = OpenAI(OpenAIModels.GPT_3_5_TURBO.value)

context = sycamore.init()
pdf_docset = context.read.binary(work_dir, binary_format="pdf", metadata_provider=JsonManifestMetadataProvider(manifest_path))

pdf_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output of this cell will show information about the DocSet, and show that there are two documents included in it.

1f. This cell will segment the PDFs and visually show how a few pages are segmented.

```python
# Note: these fonts aren't correct, but are close enough for the visualization
if os.path.isfile("/usr/share/fonts/truetype/liberation/LiberationSans-Regular.ttf"):
    font_path = "LiberationSans-Regular"
else:
    print("Using default Arial font, which should work on MacOS and Windows")
    font_path = "Arial.ttf"

def filter_func(doc: Document) -> bool:
    return doc.properties["page_number"] == 1

partitioned_docset = pdf_docset.partition(partitioner=UnstructuredPdfPartitioner())
visualized_docset = (partitioned_docset
              .flat_map(split_and_convert_to_image)
              .map_batch(DrawBoxes, f_constructor_args=[font_path])
              .filter(filter_func))

for doc in visualized_docset.take(2):
    display(Image(doc.binary_representation, height=500, width=500))
```

1g. Next, we will merge the initial chunks from the document segmentation into larger chunks. We will set the maximum token size so the larger chunk will still fit in the context window of our transformer model, which we will use to create vector embeddings in a later step. We have seen larger chunk sizes improve search relevance, as the larger chunk gives more contextual information about the data in the chunk to the transformer model.

```python
merged_docset = partitioned_docset.merge(GreedyTextElementMerger(tokenizer=HuggingFaceTokenizer("sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"), max_tokens=512))
merged_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output should show a dict with an array of elements, and each element with content like `'type': 'Section', 'binary_representation': b'...'`.

1h. Now, we will explode the DocSet and prepare it for creating vector embeddings and loading into OpenSearch. The explode transform converts the elements of each document into top-level documents.

```python
exploded_docset = merged_docset.explode()
exploded_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output should show the exploded DocSet with an empty 'elements' list in the `‘type’: ‘pdf’` entry, many entries with `‘type’: ‘Section’`, and no 'elements' sub-entry.

1i. We will now create the vector embeddings for our DocSet. The model we selected is MiniLM, and you could choose a different embedding model depending on your use case.

```python
st_embed_docset = (exploded_docset
              .embed(embedder=SentenceTransformerEmbedder(batch_size=100, model_name="sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2")))
st_embed_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output should show the DocSet with vector embeddings, e.g. `'embedding': '<384 floats>'` should be added to each of the sections.

1j. Before loading the Sycamore indexes, we need to configure the data preparation job to: 1/have the endpoint for the Sycamore stack and 2/have the configuration for creating the Sycamore vector and keyword indexes for hybrid search. The data preparation job will then instruct Sycamore to create these indexes and load them in the final step.

The rest endpoint for loading data for the Sycamore stack we launched is at port 9200. Make sure to provide the name for the index you will create. Sycamore uses [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/) for indexing. OpenSearch is a enterprise-grade, customizable search engine and vector database. Sycamore exposes many OpenSearch settings, and you can adjust them depending on your use case.

*Note: If you are running Jupyter locally, you need to change the host from `opensearch` to `localhost` so that the Jupyter notebook can talk to Sycamore's OpenSearch container.

```python
index = "local_development_example_index" # You can change this to something else if you'd like

os_client_args = {
        "hosts": [{"host": "opensearch", "port": 9200}],
        "http_compress": True,
        "http_auth": ("admin", "admin"),
        "use_ssl": True,
        "verify_certs": False,
        "ssl_assert_hostname": False,
        "ssl_show_warn": False,
        "timeout": 120,
    }

index_settings =  {
        "body": {
            "settings": {"index.knn": True, "number_of_shards": 5, "number_of_replicas": 1},
            "mappings": {
                "properties": {
                    "embedding": {
                        "dimension": 384,
                        "method": {"engine": "nmslib", "space_type": "l2", "name": "hnsw", "parameters": {}},
                        "type": "knn_vector",
                    },
                }
            },
        }
    }
```

1k. This is the final part of the data preparation job. We will load the data and vector embeddings into the Sycamore using the configuration supplied above.

```python
st_embed_docset.write.opensearch(os_client_args=os_client_args, index_name=index, index_settings=index_settings)
```

1l. Finally, add a cell to tell you where to go next and which index you should be querying.  This cell is also useful when you re-execute the script as the output appears when all cells are done.

```python
print("Visit http://localhost:3000 and use the", index, " index to query these results in the demo UI")
```

2. Once the data is loaded into Sycamore, you can use the [demo query UI](../querying_data/demo_query_ui.md) for conversational search on it.
- Using your internet browser, visit `http://localhost:3000`.
- Make sure the index selected in the dropdown at the bottom of the UI has the same name you provided in step 1j
- Create a new conversation. Enter the name for your conversation in the text box in the left "Conversations" panel, and hit enter or click the "Add convo" icon on the right of the text box.
- As a sample question, you can ask "Who wrote Attention Is All You Need?"

The results of the hybrid search are in the right hand panel, and you can click through to find the highlighted passage (step 1c enabled this).

Though we are getting good results back from hybrid search, it would be nice if we could have the titles and other information for each passage. In the next section, we will iterate on our Sycamore job, and use a Sycamore transform that leverages generative AI to extract some metadata.

## Add metadata extraction using GenAI

Next, we are going to edit our existing notebook to add an additional processing step. We will be making changes to the cells partway through the notebook, and then editing some of the nearby cells to connect the new processing steps into the existing steps.

3a. Scroll back in the notebook and add a cell between the `visualized_docset` cell and before the `merged_docset` cell. The new cell is between the ones you added in step 1f and 1g.

3b. In this cell, we will add LLM prompt templates for extracting titles and authors. These prompts train a generative AI model to identify a title (or author) by giving examples, and then we will use the trained model to identify and extract them for each document.

```python
 title_context_template = """
    ELEMENT 1: Jupiter's Moons
    ELEMENT 2: Ganymede 2020
    ELEMENT 3: by Audi Lauper and Serena K. Goldberg. 2011
    ELEMENT 4: From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
    ELEMENT 5: Ganymede, or Jupiter III, is the largest and most massive natural satellite of Jupiter as well as in the Solar System, being a planetary-mass moon. It is the largest Solar System object without an atmosphere, despite being the only moon of the Solar System with a magnetic field. Like Titan, it is larger than the planet Mercury, but has somewhat less surface gravity than Mercury, Io or the Moon.
    =========
    "Ganymede 2020"

    ELEMENT 1: FLAVR: Flow-Agnostic Video Representations for Fast Frame Interpolation
    ELEMENT 2: Tarun Kalluri * UCSD
    ELEMENT 3: Deepak Pathak CMU
    ELEMENT 4: Manmohan Chandraker UCSD
    ELEMENT 5: Du Tran Facebook AI
    ELEMENT 6: https://tarun005.github.io/FLAVR/
    ELEMENT 7: 2 2 0 2
    ELEMENT 8: b e F 4 2
    ELEMENT 9: ]
    ELEMENT 10: V C . s c [
    ========
    "FLAVR: Flow-Agnostic Video Representations for Fast Frame Interpolation"

    """
author_context_template = """
    ELEMENT 1: Jupiter's Moons
    ELEMENT 2: Ganymede 2020
    ELEMENT 3: by Audi Lauper and Serena K. Goldberg. 2011
    ELEMENT 4: From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
    ELEMENT 5: Ganymede, or Jupiter III, is the largest and most massive natural satellite of Jupiter as well as in the Solar System, being a planetary-mass moon. It is the largest Solar System object without an atmosphere, despite being the only moon of the Solar System with a magnetic field. Like Titan, it is larger than the planet Mercury, but has somewhat less surface gravity than Mercury, Io or the Moon.
    =========
    Audi Laupe, Serena K. Goldberg

    ELEMENT 1: FLAVR: Flow-Agnostic Video Representations for Fast Frame Interpolation
    ELEMENT 2: Tarun Kalluri * UCSD
    ELEMENT 3: Deepak Pathak CMU
    ELEMENT 4: Manmohan Chandraker UCSD
    ELEMENT 5: Du Tran Facebook AI
    ELEMENT 6: https://tarun005.github.io/FLAVR/
    ELEMENT 7: 2 2 0 2
    ELEMENT 8: b e F 4 2
    ELEMENT 9: ]
    ELEMENT 10: V C . s c [
    ========
    Tarun Kalluri, Deepak Pathak, Manmohan Chandraker, Du Tran

  """
```

3c. Add a following cell. In this cell, we will use Sycamore's entity extractor transform with the prompt templates. We are selecting OpenAI as the generative AI model to use for this extraction.

```python
entity_docset = (partitioned_docset
                 .extract_entity(entity_extractor=OpenAIEntityExtractor("title", llm=openai_llm, prompt_template=title_context_template))
                 .extract_entity(entity_extractor=OpenAIEntityExtractor("authors", llm=openai_llm, prompt_template=author_context_template)))

entity_docset = entity_docset.spread_properties(["title", "authors"])

entity_docset.show(show_binary = False, show_elements=False)
```

The output should show the title and author added to the elements in the DocSet.

3d. Since we have changed the output of this cell, we need to use the entity_docset rather than the
partitioned_docset to create the merged_docset.  Adjust the next cell so that it looks like:

```python
merged_docset = entity_docset.merge(GreedyTextElementMerger(tokenizer=HuggingFaceTokenizer("sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"), max_tokens=512))
merged_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

3e. Change the index name set below (e.g. to `index = "local_development_example_index_withentity"`) that you added in step 3j so that when you run the remaining cells it will load into a new index. Otherwise the old and new data processed data would be intermingled in the same index.

3f. Run the rest of the cells in the notebook, and load the data into Sycamore.

3g. Once the data is loaded into OpenSearch, you can use the demo query UI for conversational search on it.
- Using your internet browser, visit `http://localhost:3000` .
- The titles should appear with the hybrid search results in the right panel. If they don't check that you both a) changed the index name, and b) used the new index in the UI.

Congrats! You've developed and iterated on a Sycamore data preparation script using Jupyter, and used generative AI to extract metadata and enrich your dataset.

Commit message:

Add sketch() after explode() in all our default pipelines. (#312)
* Add sketch() after explode() in all our default pipelines.

* Fix too-long line.

docs/source/tutorials/sycamore-jupyter-dev-example.md, after:

# Use Jupyter to write and iterate on Sycamore jobs

Jupyter notebooks provide an easy way to create, iterate on, and run Sycamore data preparation scripts. Sycamore includes a containerized Jupyter notebook, or you can install and run Jupyter locally.

In this example, we will:

- [Install and run components](#Access-your-Jupyter-notebook)
- [Write a data preparation job](#Write-an-data-preparation-job)
- [Add metadata extraction to the job using a GenAI transform](#Add-metadata-extraction-using-GenAI)

The full notebook that includes the final code of the job is [here](https://github.com/aryn-ai/sycamore/blob/main/notebooks/jupyter_dev_example.ipynb).

## Access your Jupyter notebook

### Using the Jupyter container

1. Launch Sycamore using the [get started instructions](../welcome_to_sycamore/get_started.md#launch-sycamore).

2. Access Jupyter using the URL specified in the logs. The token is stable
over restarts of the container. If you cannot find the URL, follow [these instructions](../data_ingestion_and_preparation/using_jupyter.md#jupyter-notebook).

The script you will develop is also present as a notebook file in the `examples` directory for convenience. We recommend that you write your script in either the docker_volume or bind_dir directory so that your script persists over container restarts.

### Install Jupyter locally

The instructions for installing Jupyter locally have been tested on MacOS 14.0, MacOS 13.4.1, and Ubuntu 23.10; they may have to be tweaked for other environments

1. Launch Sycamore using the [get started instructions](../welcome_to_sycamore/get_started.md#launch-sycamore).

2. Install the Sycamore data preparation libraries locally [using these instructions](../data_ingestion_and_preparation/installing_sycamore_libraries_locally.md).

3. Install [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/). If you already have a Python notebook environment, you can choose to use that instead.

```
pip install notebook
```

*Note: If you are installing on linux you will also need `pip install async_timeout` to complete
these instructions.*

4. Launch Jupyter Notebook

If you haven't set your OpenAI Key, do so before starting your notebook:
```
export OPENAI_API_KEY=YOUR-KEY
```

In the browser window that appears, navigate to File -> New -> Notebook; and then choose the
preferred kernel.


## Write a data preparation job

1. First, we will write an initial data preparation job in a new notebook file. We'll then iterate on the job later in this tutorial.

1a. First, we will import our dependencies from IPython, JSON, Pillow, and Sycamore:

```python
import json
import os
import subprocess
import sys

from pathlib import Path
from IPython.display import display, Image
from IPython.display import IFrame
from PIL import Image as PImage

import sycamore
from sycamore.data import Document
from sycamore.transforms.embed import SentenceTransformerEmbedder
from sycamore.transforms.extract_entity import OpenAIEntityExtractor
from sycamore.llms import OpenAIModels, OpenAI, LLM
from sycamore.transforms.partition import UnstructuredPdfPartitioner, HtmlPartitioner
from sycamore.llms.prompts.default_prompts import TEXT_SUMMARIZER_GUIDANCE_PROMPT_CHAT
from sycamore.transforms.summarize import Summarizer
from sycamore.transforms.extract_table import TextractTableExtractor
from sycamore.functions.document import split_and_convert_to_image, DrawBoxes
from sycamore.tests.config import TEST_DIR
from sycamore.transforms.merge_elements import GreedyTextElementMerger
from sycamore.functions.tokenizer import HuggingFaceTokenizer
from sycamore.scans.file_scan import JsonManifestMetadataProvider
```

1b. Next, we will define a working directory for the pdfs we will process and the metadata.
You can make additional cells with the rectangle over a + button on the right side of each cell.

```python
work_dir = "tmp/sycamore/data"
```

NOTE: If you are running in the container, we recommend instead `work_dir = "/app/work/docker_volume"` since that location is persistent over container restarts.


1c. Now we download the pdf files we're going to process and create metadata for them. We will use
two journal articles, "Attention Is All You Need" and "A Comprehensive Survey On Applications Of
Transformers For Deep Learning Tasks." The metadata file enables our demo query UI to show and highlight
the source documents when clicking on a search result. In this example, the demo query UI will pull the
document from a publicly accessible URL. However, you could choose to host the documents in Amazon
S3 (common for enterprise data) or other locations accessible by the demo query UI container.

```python
os.makedirs(work_dir, exist_ok = True)
metadata = {}
for f in ["1706.03762.pdf", "2306.07303.pdf"]:
    path = os.path.join(work_dir, f)
    url = os.path.join("https://arxiv.org/pdf", f)
    if not Path(path).is_file():
        print("Downloading {} to {}".format(url, path))
        subprocess.run(["curl", "-o", path, url])
    metadata[path] = { "_location": url }

manifest_path = os.path.join(work_dir, "manifest.json")
with open(manifest_path, "w") as f:
    json.dump(metadata, f)
```

1d. The next two cells will show a quick view of the PDF documents we will ingest, if we want to inspect them or take a closer look. Note we are pulling the data from the location of the files so that this example works both within and outside of a container.

```
IFrame(str(metadata[os.path.join(work_dir, "1706.03762.pdf")]["_location"]), width=700, height=600)
```

```
IFrame(str(metadata[os.path.join(work_dir, "2306.07303.pdf")]["_location"]), width=700, height=600)
```

1e. Now, we initialize a Sycamore context, and create a [DocSet](../data_ingestion_and_preparation/data_preparation_concepts.md#docset):

```python
openai_llm = OpenAI(OpenAIModels.GPT_3_5_TURBO.value)

context = sycamore.init()
pdf_docset = context.read.binary(work_dir, binary_format="pdf", metadata_provider=JsonManifestMetadataProvider(manifest_path))

pdf_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output of this cell will show information about the DocSet, and show that there are two documents included in it.

1f. This cell will segment the PDFs and visually show how a few pages are segmented.

```python
# Note: these fonts aren't correct, but are close enough for the visualization
if os.path.isfile("/usr/share/fonts/truetype/liberation/LiberationSans-Regular.ttf"):
    font_path = "LiberationSans-Regular"
else:
    print("Using default Arial font, which should work on MacOS and Windows")
    font_path = "Arial.ttf"

def filter_func(doc: Document) -> bool:
    return doc.properties["page_number"] == 1

partitioned_docset = pdf_docset.partition(partitioner=UnstructuredPdfPartitioner())
visualized_docset = (partitioned_docset
              .flat_map(split_and_convert_to_image)
              .map_batch(DrawBoxes, f_constructor_args=[font_path])
              .filter(filter_func))

for doc in visualized_docset.take(2):
    display(Image(doc.binary_representation, height=500, width=500))
```

1g. Next, we will merge the initial chunks from the document segmentation into larger chunks. We will set the maximum token size so the larger chunk will still fit in the context window of our transformer model, which we will use to create vector embeddings in a later step. We have seen larger chunk sizes improve search relevance, as the larger chunk gives more contextual information about the data in the chunk to the transformer model.

```python
merged_docset = partitioned_docset.merge(GreedyTextElementMerger(tokenizer=HuggingFaceTokenizer("sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"), max_tokens=512))
merged_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output should show a dict with an array of elements, and each element with content like `'type': 'Section', 'binary_representation': b'...'`.

1h. Now, we will explode the DocSet and prepare it for creating vector embeddings and loading into OpenSearch. The explode transform converts the elements of each document into top-level documents.

```python
exploded_docset = merged_docset.explode()
exploded_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output should show the exploded DocSet with an empty 'elements' list in the `‘type’: ‘pdf’` entry, many entries with `‘type’: ‘Section’`, and no 'elements' sub-entry.

1i. In order to prepare for near-duplicate detection later on, we need to annotate each document with a "sketch".  The `sketch` transform will add a piece of metadata called `shingles`, which is a list of hash values.

```python
sketched_docset = exploded_docset.sketch()
sketched_docset.show(show_binary=False)
```

1j. We will now create the vector embeddings for our DocSet. The model we selected is MiniLM, and you could choose a different embedding model depending on your use case.

```python
st_embed_docset = (sketched_docset
              .embed(embedder=SentenceTransformerEmbedder(batch_size=100, model_name="sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2")))
st_embed_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

The output should show the DocSet with vector embeddings, e.g. `'embedding': '<384 floats>'` should be added to each of the sections.

1k. Before loading the Sycamore indexes, we need to configure the data preparation job to: 1/have the endpoint for the Sycamore stack and 2/have the configuration for creating the Sycamore vector and keyword indexes for hybrid search. The data preparation job will then instruct Sycamore to create these indexes and load them in the final step.

The rest endpoint for loading data for the Sycamore stack we launched is at port 9200. Make sure to provide the name for the index you will create. Sycamore uses [OpenSearch](https://opensearch.org/) for indexing. OpenSearch is a enterprise-grade, customizable search engine and vector database. Sycamore exposes many OpenSearch settings, and you can adjust them depending on your use case.

*Note: If you are running Jupyter locally, you need to change the host from `opensearch` to `localhost` so that the Jupyter notebook can talk to Sycamore's OpenSearch container.

```python
index = "local_development_example_index" # You can change this to something else if you'd like

os_client_args = {
        "hosts": [{"host": "opensearch", "port": 9200}],
        "http_compress": True,
        "http_auth": ("admin", "admin"),
        "use_ssl": True,
        "verify_certs": False,
        "ssl_assert_hostname": False,
        "ssl_show_warn": False,
        "timeout": 120,
    }

index_settings =  {
        "body": {
            "settings": {"index.knn": True, "number_of_shards": 5, "number_of_replicas": 1},
            "mappings": {
                "properties": {
                    "embedding": {
                        "dimension": 384,
                        "method": {"engine": "nmslib", "space_type": "l2", "name": "hnsw", "parameters": {}},
                        "type": "knn_vector",
                    },
                }
            },
        }
    }
```

1l. This is the final part of the data preparation job. We will load the data and vector embeddings into the Sycamore using the configuration supplied above.

```python
st_embed_docset.write.opensearch(os_client_args=os_client_args, index_name=index, index_settings=index_settings)
```

1m. Finally, add a cell to tell you where to go next and which index you should be querying.  This cell is also useful when you re-execute the script as the output appears when all cells are done.

```python
print("Visit http://localhost:3000 and use the", index, " index to query these results in the demo UI")
```

2. Once the data is loaded into Sycamore, you can use the [demo query UI](../querying_data/demo_query_ui.md) for conversational search on it.
- Using your internet browser, visit `http://localhost:3000`.
- Make sure the index selected in the dropdown at the bottom of the UI has the same name you provided in step 1j
- Create a new conversation. Enter the name for your conversation in the text box in the left "Conversations" panel, and hit enter or click the "Add convo" icon on the right of the text box.
- As a sample question, you can ask "Who wrote Attention Is All You Need?"

The results of the hybrid search are in the right hand panel, and you can click through to find the highlighted passage (step 1c enabled this).

Though we are getting good results back from hybrid search, it would be nice if we could have the titles and other information for each passage. In the next section, we will iterate on our Sycamore job, and use a Sycamore transform that leverages generative AI to extract some metadata.

## Add metadata extraction using GenAI

Next, we are going to edit our existing notebook to add an additional processing step. We will be making changes to the cells partway through the notebook, and then editing some of the nearby cells to connect the new processing steps into the existing steps.

3a. Scroll back in the notebook and add a cell between the `visualized_docset` cell and before the `merged_docset` cell. The new cell is between the ones you added in step 1f and 1g.

3b. In this cell, we will add LLM prompt templates for extracting titles and authors. These prompts train a generative AI model to identify a title (or author) by giving examples, and then we will use the trained model to identify and extract them for each document.

```python
 title_context_template = """
    ELEMENT 1: Jupiter's Moons
    ELEMENT 2: Ganymede 2020
    ELEMENT 3: by Audi Lauper and Serena K. Goldberg. 2011
    ELEMENT 4: From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
    ELEMENT 5: Ganymede, or Jupiter III, is the largest and most massive natural satellite of Jupiter as well as in the Solar System, being a planetary-mass moon. It is the largest Solar System object without an atmosphere, despite being the only moon of the Solar System with a magnetic field. Like Titan, it is larger than the planet Mercury, but has somewhat less surface gravity than Mercury, Io or the Moon.
    =========
    "Ganymede 2020"

    ELEMENT 1: FLAVR: Flow-Agnostic Video Representations for Fast Frame Interpolation
    ELEMENT 2: Tarun Kalluri * UCSD
    ELEMENT 3: Deepak Pathak CMU
    ELEMENT 4: Manmohan Chandraker UCSD
    ELEMENT 5: Du Tran Facebook AI
    ELEMENT 6: https://tarun005.github.io/FLAVR/
    ELEMENT 7: 2 2 0 2
    ELEMENT 8: b e F 4 2
    ELEMENT 9: ]
    ELEMENT 10: V C . s c [
    ========
    "FLAVR: Flow-Agnostic Video Representations for Fast Frame Interpolation"

    """
author_context_template = """
    ELEMENT 1: Jupiter's Moons
    ELEMENT 2: Ganymede 2020
    ELEMENT 3: by Audi Lauper and Serena K. Goldberg. 2011
    ELEMENT 4: From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
    ELEMENT 5: Ganymede, or Jupiter III, is the largest and most massive natural satellite of Jupiter as well as in the Solar System, being a planetary-mass moon. It is the largest Solar System object without an atmosphere, despite being the only moon of the Solar System with a magnetic field. Like Titan, it is larger than the planet Mercury, but has somewhat less surface gravity than Mercury, Io or the Moon.
    =========
    Audi Laupe, Serena K. Goldberg

    ELEMENT 1: FLAVR: Flow-Agnostic Video Representations for Fast Frame Interpolation
    ELEMENT 2: Tarun Kalluri * UCSD
    ELEMENT 3: Deepak Pathak CMU
    ELEMENT 4: Manmohan Chandraker UCSD
    ELEMENT 5: Du Tran Facebook AI
    ELEMENT 6: https://tarun005.github.io/FLAVR/
    ELEMENT 7: 2 2 0 2
    ELEMENT 8: b e F 4 2
    ELEMENT 9: ]
    ELEMENT 10: V C . s c [
    ========
    Tarun Kalluri, Deepak Pathak, Manmohan Chandraker, Du Tran

  """
```

3c. Add a following cell. In this cell, we will use Sycamore's entity extractor transform with the prompt templates. We are selecting OpenAI as the generative AI model to use for this extraction.

```python
entity_docset = (partitioned_docset
                 .extract_entity(entity_extractor=OpenAIEntityExtractor("title", llm=openai_llm, prompt_template=title_context_template))
                 .extract_entity(entity_extractor=OpenAIEntityExtractor("authors", llm=openai_llm, prompt_template=author_context_template)))

entity_docset = entity_docset.spread_properties(["title", "authors"])

entity_docset.show(show_binary = False, show_elements=False)
```

The output should show the title and author added to the elements in the DocSet.

3d. Since we have changed the output of this cell, we need to use the entity_docset rather than the
partitioned_docset to create the merged_docset.  Adjust the next cell so that it looks like:

```python
merged_docset = entity_docset.merge(GreedyTextElementMerger(tokenizer=HuggingFaceTokenizer("sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2"), max_tokens=512))
merged_docset.show(show_binary = False)
```

3e. Change the index name set below (e.g. to `index = "local_development_example_index_withentity"`) that you added in step 3j so that when you run the remaining cells it will load into a new index. Otherwise the old and new data processed data would be intermingled in the same index.

3f. Run the rest of the cells in the notebook, and load the data into Sycamore.

3g. Once the data is loaded into OpenSearch, you can use the demo query UI for conversational search on it.
- Using your internet browser, visit `http://localhost:3000` .
- The titles should appear with the hybrid search results in the right panel. If they don't check that you both a) changed the index name, and b) used the new index in the UI.

Congrats! You've developed and iterated on a Sycamore data preparation script using Jupyter, and used generative AI to extract metadata and enrich your dataset.
