lib/aryn-sdk/README.md, before:

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/aryn-sdk)](https://pypi.org/project/aryn-sdk/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/aryn-sdk)](https://pypi.org/project/aryn-sdk/)
[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-sycamore-brightgreen.svg?logo=slack)](https://join.slack.com/t/sycamore-ulj8912/shared_invite/zt-23sv0yhgy-MywV5dkVQ~F98Aoejo48Jg)
[![Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/sycamore/badge/?version=stable)](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=stable)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/aryn-ai/sycamore)

`aryn-sdk` is a simple client library for interacting with Aryn cloud services.

## Aryn Partitioning Service

Partition pdf files with the Aryn Partitioning Service (APS) through `aryn-sdk`:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )
elements = data['elements']
```

Convert partitioned tables to pandas dataframes for easier use:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file, tables_to_pandas

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )
elements_and_tables = tables_to_pandas(data)
dataframes = [table for (element, table) in elements_and_tables if table is not None]
```

Visualize partitioned documents by drawing on the bounding boxes:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file, draw_with_boxes

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )
page_pics = draw_with_boxes("partition-me.pdf", data, draw_table_cells=True)

from IPython.display import display
display(page_pics[0])
```

> Note: visualizing documents requires `poppler`, a pdf processing library, to be installed. Instructions for installing poppler can be found [here](https://pypi.org/project/pdf2image/)

Commit message:

update readme and add table_elem_to_dataframe to __init__.py
Signed-off-by: Henry Lindeman <hmlindeman@yahoo.com>

lib/aryn-sdk/README.md, after:

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/aryn-sdk)](https://pypi.org/project/aryn-sdk/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/aryn-sdk)](https://pypi.org/project/aryn-sdk/)
[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-sycamore-brightgreen.svg?logo=slack)](https://join.slack.com/t/sycamore-ulj8912/shared_invite/zt-23sv0yhgy-MywV5dkVQ~F98Aoejo48Jg)
[![Docs](https://readthedocs.org/projects/sycamore/badge/?version=stable)](https://sycamore.readthedocs.io/en/stable/?badge=stable)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/aryn-ai/sycamore)

`aryn-sdk` is a simple client library for interacting with Aryn cloud services.

## Aryn Partitioning Service

Partition pdf files with the Aryn Partitioning Service (APS) through `aryn-sdk`:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )
elements = data['elements']
```

Convert a partitioned table element to a pandas dataframe for easier use:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file, table_elem_to_dataframe

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )

# Find the first table and convert it to a dataframe
df = None
for element in data['elements']:
    if element['type'] == 'table':
        df = table_elem_to_dataframe(element)
        break
```

Or convert all partitioned tables to pandas dataframes in one shot:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file, tables_to_pandas

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )
elements_and_tables = tables_to_pandas(data)
dataframes = [table for (element, table) in elements_and_tables if table is not None]
```

Visualize partitioned documents by drawing on the bounding boxes:

```python
from aryn_sdk.partition import partition_file, draw_with_boxes

with open("partition-me.pdf", "rb") as f:
    data = partition_file(
        f,
        use_ocr=True,
        extract_table_structure=True,
        extract_images=True
    )
page_pics = draw_with_boxes("partition-me.pdf", data, draw_table_cells=True)

from IPython.display import display
display(page_pics[0])
```

> Note: visualizing documents requires `poppler`, a pdf processing library, to be installed. Instructions for installing poppler can be found [here](https://pypi.org/project/pdf2image/)
